[Non-equilibrium effects on flow past a circular cylinder 
in the slip and early transition regime],

X.-J. Gu, R. W. Barber, B. John, D. R. Emerson, J Fluid Mechanics, 
860, 654-681 (2019).

This paper presents a comprehensive investigation into flow past a
circular cylinder where compressibility and rarefaction effects play
an important role. The study focuses on steady subsonic flow in the
Reynolds-number range 0.1â€“45. Rarefaction, or non-equilibrium, effects
in the slip and early transition regime are accounted for using the
method of moments and results are compared to data from kinetic theory
obtained from the direct simulation Monte Carlo method. Solutions
obtained for incompressible continuum flow serve as a baseline to
examine non-equilibrium effects on the flow features. For creeping
flow, where the Reynolds number is less than unity, the drag
coefficient predicted by the moment equations is in good agreement
with kinetic theory for Knudsen numbers less than one. When flow
separation occurs, we show that the effects of rarefaction and
velocity slip delay flow separation and will reduce the size of the
vortices downstream of the cylinder. When the Knudsen number is above
0.028, the vortex length shows an initial increase with the Reynolds
number, as observed in the standard no-slip continuum regime. However,
once the Reynolds number exceeds a critical value, the size of the
downstream vortices decreases with increasing Reynolds number until
they disappear. An existence criterion, which identifies the limits
for the presence of the vortices, is proposed. The flow physics around
the cylinder is further analysed in terms of velocity slip, pressure
and skin friction coefficients, which highlights that viscous,
rarefaction and compressibility effects all play a complex role. We
also show that the local Knudsen number, which indicates the state of
the gas around the cylinder, can differ significantly from its
free-stream value and it is essential that computational studies of
subsonic gas flows in the slip and early transition regime are able to
account for these strong non-equilibrium effects.

Return to "Publications page"_../papers.html
